#Variables 
The following three examples accomplish the same thing, but are very different when you read them and try to understand them.
```
a = 35.0
b = 12.50
c = a * b
print(c)

hours = 35.0
rate = 12.50
pay = hours * rate
print(pay)

x1q3z9ahd = 35.0
x1q3z9afd = 12.50
x1q3p9afd = x1q3z9ahd * x1q3z9afd
print(x1q3p9afd)
```

-  The Python interpreter sees all of these the same.
-  Humans are a different story, avoid making your programs overly complex and hard to understand. 
- Humans will most quickly understand the intent of the second program because the programmer has chosen variable names that reflect their intent regarding what data will be stored in each variable.
- We call wisely chosen variable names "mnemonic variable names".
- Mnemonic means "memory aid"
- Choosing mnemonic variable names helps us remember why we created the variable in the first place.

```
for word in words:     # good for if the program is about looking
    print(word)        # for words in data.

for slice in pizza:    # These are the same. But this one is very
    print(slice)       # un-mnemonic they are distracting from the 
                       # meaning of the program
                       ```

```

- It may be easier for a beginner to look at the 2 nd example and know which parts are reserved words. Its clear that Python has no understanding of pizza and slices.
- But if the program is truly about reading data and looking for words in the data, pizza and slice are very un-mnemonic. They distract from the meaning of the program.
- The parts of the code that are defined by Python (for, in, print, and :) are in bold and the programmer-chosen variables (word and words) are not in bold.
- Many text editors are aware of Python syntax and will color reserved words differently to give you clues to keep your variables and reserved words separate.