**Assignment** A statement that assigns a value to a variable.

**Concatenate** To join two operands end to end.

**Comment** Information in a program that is meant for other programmers (or
Anyone reading the source code) and has no effect on the execution of the
Program.

**Evaluate** To simplify an expression by performing the operations in order to yield
A single value.

**Expression** A combination of variables, operators, and values that represents a
Single result value.

**Floating point** A type that represents numbers with fractional parts.

**Integer** A type that represents whole numbers.

**Keyword** A reserved word that is used by the compiler to parse a program; you
Cannot use keywords like if, def, and while as variable names.

**Mnemonic** A memory aid. We often give variables mnemonic names to help us
Remember what is stored in the variable.

**Modulus operator** An operator, denoted with a percent sign (%), that works on
Integers and yields the remainder when one number is divided by another.

**Operand** One of the values on which an operator operates.

**Operator** A special symbol that represents a simple computation like addition,
Multiplication, or string concatenation.

**Rules of precedence** The set of rules governing the order in which expressions
Involving multiple operators and operands are evaluated.

**Statement** A section of code that represents a command or action. So far, the
Statements we have seen are assignments and print expression statement.
String A type that represents sequences of characters.

**Type** A category of values. The types we have seen so far are integers (type int),
Floating-point numbers (type float), and strings (type str).

**Value** One of the basic units of data, like a number or string, that a program
Manipulates.

**Variable** A name that refers to a value.