#HTTP
In this chapter we will pretend to be a web browser and retrieve web pages using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). Then we will read through the web page data and parse it.

- The network protocol that powers the web is actually quite simple and there is built-in support in Python called `socket` which makes it very easy to make network connections and retrieve data over those sockets in a Python program.
- A *socket* is much like a file, except that a single socket provides a two-way connection between two programs.
- You can both read from and write to the same socket.
- If you write something to a socket, it is sent to the application at the other end of the socket.
- If you read from the socket, you are given the data which the other application has sent.

- If you try to read a socket when the program on the other end of the socket hasn't sent any data, you just sit and wait.
- If the programs on both ends of the socket simply wait for some data without sending anything, they'll wait for a long time.
- So an important part of programs that communicate over the Internet is to have some sort of protocol.

- A protocol is a set of precise rules that determine who is to go first,
- What they are to do, and then what the responses are to that message.
- Who sends next,  and so on.
- There's a sort of dance going on between the two apps at either end of the socket, the protocol stops you from stepping on each others toes.

	The syntax for a GET request, to request a document from a web server, we make a connection to the `www.pr4e.org` server on port 80 and then send a line in the form :
`GET http://data.pr4e.org/romeo.txt HTTP/1.0`
- Where the second parameter is the web page we are requesting, and then we also send a blank line.
- The web server will only respond with some header information about the document and a blank line followed by the doc content.

