#Functions 

- A *function definition* specifies the name of a new function and the sequence of statements that execute when the function is called.
- Once we define a function, we can reuse the function over and over throughout our program.:
```
def print_lyrics():
    print("I'm a lumberjack, and I'm okay.")
    print('I sleep all night and I work all day.')
    
```
- **def** is a keyword that indicates that this is a function definition.
- The name of the function is print_lyrics.
- The rules for function names are the same as variables
- The empty parentheses after the name indicate that the function doesn't take any arguments.
- The first line of the function definition is called the *header*; the rest is called the *body*.
- The header has to end with a colon and the body has to be indented.
- If you type a function deﬁnition in interactive mode, the interpreter prints ellipses  (. . . ) to let you know that the deﬁnition isn’t complete:
```
>>> def print_lyrics():
...     print("I'm a lumberjack, and I'm okay.")  
...     print('I sleep all night and I work all day.') ...
```
- To end the function, you have to enter an empty line when in interactive mode. ( not with a script)
- Defining a function creates a variable of the same name.
```
>>> print(print_lyrics)  
<function print_lyrics at 0xb7e99e9c>  
>>> print(type(print_lyrics))  
<class 'function'>
```
- The value of print_lyrics is a *function object*, which has the type "function".
- The syntax for calling the new function is the same as for built-in functions:
```
>>> print_lyrics()  
I'm a lumberjack, and I'm okay.  
I sleep all night and I work all day.
```
- Once you have deﬁned a function, you can use it inside another function. For example, to repeat the previous refrain, we could write a function called repeat_lyrics:
```
def repeat_lyrics():  
    print_lyrics()  
    print_lyrics()

# And then call repeat_lyrics:
>>> repeat_lyrics()  
I'm a lumberjack, and I'm okay.  
I sleep all night and I work all day.  
I'm a lumberjack, and I'm okay.  
I sleep all night and I work all day.
```