#JSON 

- We construct our JSON by nesting dictionaries and lists as needed.
- In this example, we represent a list of users where each user is a set of key-value pairs (i.e., a dictionary)
- So we have a list of dictionaries.
- In the following program, we use the built-in json library to parse the JSON and read through the data.

- Compare this closely to the equivalent XML data and code above.
- The JSON has less detail, so we must know in advance that we are getting a list and that the list is of users and each user is a set of key-value pairs.
- The JSON is more succinct (an advantage) but less self-describing (a disadvantage).

```JSON
import json

data = '''
[
  {"id": "001",
   "x" : "2",
   "name" : "Chuck"
   } ,
   { "id" : "009",
     "x" : "7",
     "name" : "Brent"
   }
]'''

info = json.loads(data)
print('User count:', len(info))

for item in info:
    print('Name', item['name'])
    print('Id', item['id'])
    print('Attribute', item['x'])
```

- `json.loads()` gives us a Python list which we traverse with a for loop, and each item within that list is a Python dictionary.
- Once JSON has been parsed, we can use the Python index operator to extract the data we need for each user.
- We don't have to use the JSON library to dig through the parsed JSON, since the returned data is a native Python structure.
- The output is the same as the XML version
```JSON
User count: 2
Name Chuck
Id 001
Attribute 2
Name Brent
Id 009
Attribute 7
```
- There is an industry trend shifting away from XML towards JSON for web services.
- Because JSON is simpler and more directly maps to native data structures we already have in programming languages,
- The parsing and data extraction code is usually simpler and more direct when using JSON.
- Although XML is more descriptive than JSON so there are some applications where XML has an advantage.
- For example, most word processors store documents internally using XML rather than JSON.