#Files 
# Reading files

While the *file handle* doesn't contain the data for the file, it is easy to construct a **for** loop to read through and count each of the lines in a file:
```
fhand = open('mbox-short.txt')
count = 0
for line in fhand:
    count = count + 1
print('Line Count:', count)
```

```
Line Count: 1910
```

- We can use the file handle as the sequence in our **for** loop.
- The **for** loop simply counts the number of lines in the file and prints them out.
- Rough translation of this **for** loop into English is, "for each line in the file represented by the file handle, add one to the count variable."

The reason the **open** function doesn't read the entire file is that the file might be huge with tons of gigs.
- The **open** statement takes the same amount of time regardless of the size of the file.
- The **for** loop actually causes the data to be read from the file.

When the file is read in this mannor, Python splits the data into separate lines using newline characters.
- Python reads each line through the newline and includes the newline as the last character in the **line** variable for each iteration of the **for** loop.

Because the **for** loop reads the data one line at a time, it efficiently reads and counts the lines in huge files without running out of main memory to store the data.
- The above program can count the lines in any size file using very little memory since each line is read, counted, and then discarded.
_____________________________________________

If you know the file is relatively small compared to the size of your main memory, you can read the whole file into one string using the **read** method on the file handle.
```
>>> fhand = open('mbox-short.txt')
>>> inp = fhand.read()
>>> print(len(inp))
94626
>>> print(inp[:20])
From stephen.marquar
```
- In this example,  the entire contents (all 94,626 characters) of the file mbox-short. Txt are read directly into the variable **inp**.
- When the file is read in this mannor, all the characters including the newlines are one big string stored in the variable **inp**.

It is a good idea to store the output of **read** as a variable because each call to read exausts the resource:
```
>>> fhand = open('mbox-short.txt')
>>> print(len(fhand.read()))
94626
>>> print(len(fhand.read()))
0
```

- Remember that this form of the **open** function should only be used if the file data will fit comfortably in the main memory of your computer.
- If the file is too large, you should write your program to read the file in chunks using a **for** or **while** loop.