#Dictionaries 

Say you are given a string and you want to count how many times each letter appears in it. There are several ways to do it:
1. Create 26 variables, one for each letter of the alphabet.
-  Then traverse the string and, for each letter, increment the corresponding counter, probably using a chained conditional.
2. Create a list with 26 elements.
- Then convert each character to a number (usint the built-in **ord** function), use the number as an index into the list, & increment the appropriate counter.
3. Or Create a dictionary with characters as keys and counters as the corresponding values.
- The first time you see a character, you add an item to the dictionary.
- Then you increment the value of an existing item.
Each of these options performs the same computation, but in different ways.

An *implementation* is a way of performing a computation.
- Some implementations are better than others.
- The advantage of implementing a dictionary is that we don't have to know ahead of time which letters appear in the string and we only have to make room for the letters that do appear.

Here is what the code might look like:
```python
word = 'brontosaurus'
d = dict()
for c in word:
    if c not in d:
        d[c] = 1
    else:
        d[c] = d[c] + 1
print(d)
```
- In Python for loops that iterate over sequences (like strings), the variable you use to iterate (in this case, `c`) is just a placeholder to access the elements within the sequence.
- We are computing a *histogram*, which is a statistical term for a set of counters (or frequencies).
- The `for` loop traverses the string. Each time through the loop, if the character **c** is not in the dictionary, we create a new item with the key c and the initial value 1 (since we haven't seen this letter once)
- If **c** is already in the dictionary we increment `d[c]`
Here's the output:
`{'a': 1, 'b': 1, 'o': 2, 'n': 1, 's': 2, 'r': 2, 'u': 2, 't': 1}`
- The histogram indicates that the letters "a" and "b" appear once.
- "o" appears twice, and so on.
- 
Here's an example with a less confusing variable name:

Python

```python
word = 'brontosaurus'
letter_counts = dict()  # Using a more descriptive name
for letter in word:
    if letter not in letter_counts:
        letter_counts[letter] = 1
    else:
        letter_counts[letter] += 1
print(letter_counts)
```
This code achieves the same functionality using the variable name `letter` instead of `c`.

Dictionaries have a method called `get` that takes a key and a default value.
- If the key appears in the dict, `get` returns the corresponding value.
- Else it returns the default value.
For example:
```python
counts = {'chuck':1,'annie':42,'jan':100}
print(counts.get('jan', 0))
100
print(counts.get('tim', 0))
0
```

We can use `get` to write our histogram loop more concisely. Because `get` automatically handles the case where a key is not in a dict, we can reduce four lines down to one and eleminate the `if` statement.
```python
word = 'brontosaurus'
d = dict()
for c in word:
    d[c] = d.get(c,0) + 1
print(d)
```
- The use of the `get` method to simplify this counting loop ends up being a commonly used "idiom" in Python.
- We will use it many times throughout the book.
- Take a moment to compare the loop using the if statement ant the in operator with the loop using the `get` method.
With the less confusing variable names:
```python
word = 'brontosaurus'
letter_counts = dict()
for letter in word:
    letter_counts[letter] = letter_counts.get(letter, 0) + 1
print(letter_counts)
```
1. Initialization:

    word = 'brontosaurus' - This line assigns the string "brontosaurus" to a variable named word.

    letter_counts = dict() - This line creates an empty dictionary and assigns it to the variable letter_counts. Dictionaries in Python are used to store key-value pairs. In this case, the keys will be the letters from the word, and the values will be the number of times each letter appears.

2. Looping through the Word:

    for letter in word: - This line starts a for loop that iterates over each character (letter) in the string word. The variable letter will take on the value of each character in the string during each iteration.

3. Counting Letter Occurrences:

    letter_counts[letter] = letter_counts.get(letter, 0) + 1 - This is the core part of the code that counts the letter occurrences. It uses the following steps:
        letter_counts[letter]: This tries to access the value associated with the current letter (letter) in the letter_counts dictionary.
        .get(letter, 0): This is a dictionary method called get. It takes two arguments: the key (letter) to search for and a default value (0 in this case). If the key (letter) exists in the dictionary, get returns the associated value. If the key doesn't exist, it returns the default value (0).
        + 1: This adds 1 to the value obtained from get. This ensures that if the letter already exists in the dictionary (meaning it has appeared before), its count is incremented by 1. If the letter is encountered for the first time, the default value (0) is used, incremented by 1, and assigned to the letter as its count.

4. Printing the Results:

    print(letter_counts) - After the loop finishes iterating through all the letters, this line prints the contents of the letter_counts dictionary. This dictionary will now contain each unique letter from the word "brontosaurus" as keys and their corresponding counts (number of occurrences) as values.

For example, running this code will output:

{'b': 1, 'r': 2, 'o': 2, 'n': 1, 't': 2, 's': 2, 'a': 1, 'u': 2, 'e': 1}
