#Dictionaries 

In 9.2 we made the file as simple as possible removing all punctuation..
```
But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
```
Since the Python **split** function looks for spaces and treats words as tokens separated by spaces, we would treat the words "soft!" and "soft" as different words and create a separate dictionary entry for each word.
- "who" and "Who" would also be treated as different words with different counts.

To solve these problems we'll use the string methods **lower**, **punctuation**, and **translate**.
-  **translate** is the most subtle of the methods.
- Here's the documentation for **translate**:
`line.translate(str.maketrans(fromstr, tostr, deletestr))`
*Replace the characters in fromstr with the character in the same position in tostr and delete all characters that are in deletestr. The fromstr and tostr can be empty strings and the deletestr parameter can be omitted.*

- We won't specify the **tostr** but we will use the **deletestr** parameter to delete all of the punctuation.
- We will even let Python tell us the list of characters that it considers "punctuation":
```python
import string
string.punctuation
```
`Out:`
`'!"#$%&\'()*+,-./:;<=>?@[\\]^_`{|}~' `

The parameters used by **translate** were different in Python 2.0

We'll make the following changes to our program:
```python
import string

fname = input('Enter the file name: ')
try:
    fhand = open(fname)
except:
    print('File cannot be opened:', fname)
    exit()
counts = dict()
for line in fhand:
    line = line.rstrip()
    line = line.translate(line.maketrans('','',string.punctuation))
    line = line.lower()
    words = line.split()
    for word in words:
        if word not in counts:
            counts[word] = 1
        else:
            counts[word] += 1
print(counts)
    
```
Abbreviated version of output:
```
Enter the file name: romeo-full.txt
{'swearst': 1, 'all': 6, 'afeard': 1, 'leave': 2, 'these': 2,
'kinsmen': 2, 'what': 11, 'thinkst': 1, 'love': 24, 'cloak': 1,
a': 24, 'orchard': 2, 'light': 5, 'lovers': 2, 'romeo': 40,
'maiden': 1, 'whiteupturned': 1, 'juliet': 32, 'gentleman': 1,
'it': 22, 'leans': 1, 'canst': 1, 'having': 1, ...}
```

- Part of learning the "Art of Python" or "Thinking Pythonically" is realizing that Python often has built-in capabilities for many common data analysis problems.
- Over time, you will see enough example code and read enough of the documentation to know where to look to see if someone has already written something that makes your job much easier.
- Looking through the output is still unwieldy and we can use Python to give us exactly what we're looking for.
- To do so we need to learn about Python *tuples*

