#SQL
- A relational database is made up of tables, rows, and columns.
- The columns generally have a type such as text, numeric, or date data.
When we create a table, we indicate the names and types of the columns:
```python
CREATE TABLE Tracks (title TEXT, plays INTEGER)

INSERT INTO Tracks (title, plays) VALUES ('My Way', 15)
```
- The `INSERT` statement specifies the table name, then a list of the fields/columns that you would like to set in the new row,
- and then the keyword `VALUES` and a list of corresponding values for each of the fields.

The SQL `SELECT` command is used to retrieve rows and columns from a database.
- `SELECT` lets you specify which columns you would like
-  as well as a `WHERE` clause to select which rows you would like to see.
- It also allows an optional `ORDER BY` clause to control the sorting of the returned rows.
```python
SELECT * FROM Tracks WHERE title = 'My Way'
```
- the `*` indicates that you want all of the columns for each row that matches the `WHERE` clause.
- Note the single equals sign.., other logical operations allowed in a `WHERE` clause are `<,>,<=,!=`, as well as `AND` and `OR` and parentheses to build your logical expressions.

You can sort the returned rows based on one of the fields...
```python
SELECT title,plays FROM Tracks ORDER BY title
```

To remove a row, you need a `WHERE` clause on an SQL `DELETE` statement.
- The `WHERE` clause determines which rows are deleted:
```python
DELETE FROM Tracks WHERE title = 'My Way'
```

You can `UPDATE` a column or columns within one or more rows in a table using the SQL `UPDATE` statement:
```python
UPDATE Tracks SET plays = 16 WHERE title = 'My Way'
```
- The `UPDATE` statement specifies a table and then a list of fields & values to change after the `SET` keyword
- and then an optional `WHERE` clause to select the rows that are to be updated.
- A single `UPDATE` statement will change all of the rows that match the `WHERE` clause.
- If a `WHERE` clause isn't specified, it performs the `UPDATE` on all of the rows in the table.
- These four basic SQL commands (INSERT, SELECT, UPDATE, and DELETE) allow the four basic operations needed to create and maintain data.
