The real power of a relational database is when we create multiple tables and make links between those tables.
- The act of deciding how to break up your application data into multiple tables and establishing the relationships between them is called *data modeling*.
- The design doc that shows the tables and their relationships is called a *data model*.

Let’s say for our Twitter spider application, instead of just counting a person’s friends, we wanted to keep a list of all of the incoming relationships so we could
find a list of everyone who is following a particular account.

Since everyone will potentially have many accounts that follow them, we can't simply add a single column to our `Twitter` table.
- So we create a new table that keeps track of pairs of friends:
```python
CREATE TABLE Pals (from_friend TEXT, to_friend TEXT)
```
Each time we encounter a person who `drchuck` is following, we would insert a row of the form:
```python
INSERT INTO Pals (from_friend TEXT, to_friend TEXT)
```
As we are processing the 20 friends from the `drchuck` Twitter feed, we will insert 20 records with "drchuck" as the first parameter so we will end up duplicating the string many times in the db.
- Database normalization states that we should never put the same string data in the db more than once.
- If we need the data more than once, we create a numeric key for the data & reference the actual data using this key.
- Strings take up a lot more space than an integer on the disk & memory of our computer,
- It takes more processor time to compare & sort.

We will store our Twitter accounts in a table named `People` instead of the `Twitter` table used in the last example.
The `People` table has an additional column to store the numeric key associated with the row for the Twitter user.
SQLite has a feature that automatically adds the key value for any row we insert into a table using a special type of data column (**INTEGER PRIMARY KEY**).
```python
CREATE TABLE People
    (id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, name TEXT UNIQUE, retrieved INTEGER)
```
- We are no longer taking a friend count in each row of the `People` table.
- We tell SQLite to manage this column and assign a unique numeric key to each row we insert automatically with the `INTEGER PRIMARY KEY`.
- The `UNIQUE` keyword tells SQLite not to produce duplicate entries.

Now instead of creating the table `Pals` above, we create a table called `Follows` with two integer columns `from_id` and `to_id` and a constraint on the table that the *combination* of `from_id` and to_id must be unique in this table of our db.
```python
CREATE TABLE Follows
    (from_id INTEGER, to_id INTEGER, UNIQUE(from_id, to_id) )
```
When we add UNIQUE clauses to our tables, we are communicating a set of rules
that we are asking the database to enforce when we attempt to insert records.
We are creating these rules as a convenience in our programs, as we will see in a
moment. The rules both keep us from making mistakes and make it simpler to
write some of our code.
In essence, in creating this Follows table, we are modelling a “relationship” where
one person “follows” someone else and representing it with a pair of numbers indi-
cating that (a) the people are connected and (b) the direction of the relationship.