#Databases 
When we prompt the user for a Twitter account, if the account exists, we must
look up its id value. If the account does not yet exist in the People table, we must
insert the record and get the id value from the inserted row.
- This is a very common pattern and is done twice in the last program.
- This code shows how we look up the `id` for a friend's account when we have extracted a `screen_name` from a `user` node in the retrieved Twitter JSON.

Since over time it will be increasingly likely that the account will already be in
the database, we first check to see if the `People` record exists using a `SELECT`
statement.

If all goes well inside the `try` section, we retrieve the record using `fetchone()` and then retrieve the first element of the returned tuple and store it in `friend_id`.

If the `SELECT` fails, the `fetchone()[0]` code will fail and control will transfer into the `except` section.
```python
friend = u['screen_name']
cur.execute('SELECT id FROM People WHERE name = ? LIMIT 1', (friend, ) )
try:
    friend_id = cur.fetchone()[0]
    countold = countold + 1
except:
    cur.execute('''INSERT OR IGNORE INTO People (name, retrieved) VALUES (?, 0)''', (friend, ) )
    conn.commit()
    if cur.rowcount != 1 :
        print('Error inserting account:', friend)
        continue
    friend_id = cur.lastrowid
    countnew = countnew + 1
```
If we end up in the except code, it simply means that the row was not found, so
we must insert the row. We use INSERT OR IGNORE just to avoid errors and then
call commit() to force the database to really be updated. After the write is done,
we can check the cur.rowcount to see how many rows were affected. Since we are
attempting to insert a single row, if the number of affected rows is something other
than 1, it is an error.
If the INSERT is successful, we can look at cur.lastrowid to find out what value
the database assigned to the id column in our newly created row.
