#Lists 

When you pass a list to a function, the function gets a reference to the list.
- If the function modifies a list parameter, the caller sees the change.

**delete_head** removes the first element from a list.
```
def delete_head(t)
    del t[0]
```

Heres how its used:
```
letters = ['a', 'b', 'c']
delete_head(letters)
print(letters)
```
`Out:`
`['b', 'c']`
- The parameter `t` and the variable `letters` are aliases for the same object.

It's important to distinguish between operations that modify lists and operations that create new lists.

For example, the `append` method modifies a list, but the `+` operator creates a new list:
```
t1 = [1, 2]
t2 = t1.append(3)
print(t1)
[1, 2, 3]
print(t2)
None

t3 = t1 + [3]
print(t3)
[1, 2, 3]
t2 is t3
False
```
This difference is important when you write functions that are supposed to modify lists.

This function does not delete the head of a list:
```
def bad_delete_head(t):
    t = t[1:]            # WRONG
```
The slice operator creates a new list and the assinment makes `t` refer to it, but none of that has any effect on the list that was passes as an argument.

An alternative is to write a function that creates and returns a new list. For example, tail returns all but the first element of a list:
```
def tail(t):
    return t[1:]
```
This function leaves the original list unmodified. Here's how it is used:
```
letters = ['a', 'b', 'c']
rest = tail(letters)
print(rest)
```
`Out:`
`['b', 'c']-`



Exercise 1: Write a function called chop that takes a list and modifies it, removing the first and last elements, and returns None. Then write a function called middle that takes a list and returns a new list that contains all but the first and last elements.
```
def chop(t):
    del t[0]
    del[-1]
```
In use:
```
letters = ['a', 'b', 'c']

chop(letters)
print(letters)
['b']
```