#Debugging 

Careless use of lists (and other mutable objects) can lead to long hours of debugging.

Here are some common pitfalls and ways to avoid them:

1. Don't forget that most list methods modify the argument and return `None`. 
- This is the opposite of string methods, which return a new string and leave the original alone.

If you are writing code like this:
 `word = word.strip()`
 - It is tempting to write list code like this:
 `t = t.sort()      #WRONG`
 - Because `sort` returns `None`, the next operation you perform with `t` is likely to fail.

Before using list methods and operators, you should read the documentation carefully and then test them in interactive mode.

2. Pick an idiom and stick with it.
- Part of the problem with lists is that there are too many ways to do things. Like removing an element from a list with **pop**, **remove**, **del**, or even a slice assignment.
- To add an element, you can use the **append** method or the `+` operator.
- But don't forget that these are right:
- `t.append(x)`
- `t = t + [x]`

- And these are wrong:
- `t.append([x])     #WRONG`
- `t = t.append(x)   #WRONG`
- `t + [x]           #WRONG`
- `t = t + x         #WRONG`

3. Make copies to avoid aliasing.
- If you want to use a method like `sort` that modifies the argument, but you need to keep the original list as well, you can make a copy.
```python
orig = t[:]
t.sort()
```
- Here you could have used the built-in function `sorted`, which returns a new, sorted list and leaves the original alone.
4. Lists, **split**, and files.
- When we read and parse files, there are many opportunities to encounter input that can crash our program.
- Use the *guardian* pattern when it comes to writing programs that read through a file and look for a "needle in a haystack".

Let's revisit our program that is looking for the day of the week on the from lines of our file:
`From stephen.marquard@uct.ac.za Sat Jan 5 09:14:16 2008`

Since we are breaking this line into words, we could stop using **startswith** and simply look at the first word of the line to determine if we are interested in it.

Here we use **continue** to skip lines that don't have "From" as the first word:
```python
fhand = open('mbox-short.txt')
for line in fhand:
    words = line.split()
    if words[0] != 'From' : continue
    print(words[2])
```
`Out:`
```python
In [22]: fhand = open('mbox-short.txt')
    ...: for line in fhand:
    ...:     words = line.split()
    ...:     if words[0] != 'From' : continue
    ...:     print(words[2])
    ...: 
Sat
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
IndexError                                Traceback (most recent call last)
Cell In[22], line 4
      2 for line in fhand:
      3     words = line.split()
----> 4     if words[0] != 'From' : continue
      5     print(words[2])

IndexError: list index out of range

```
- It could be hard to figure why our program failed.
- The smart approach is to add a print statement right before the line that failed and print out the data that seems to have caused the failure.
```python
fhand = open('mbox-short.txt')
for line in fhand:
    words=line.split()
    print('Debug:', words)
    if words[0] != 'From' : continue
    print(words[2])
```
`Out:`
```python
Debug: ['From', ' stephen.marquard@uct.ac.za ', 'Sat', 'Jan', '5', ' 09:14:16', '2008']
Sat
Debug: ['Return-Path:', '<postmaster@collab.sakaiproject.org>']
Debug: ['Received:', 'from', 'murder', '(mail.umich.edu', '[141.211.14.90])']
Debug: ['by', 'frankenstein.mail.umich.edu', '(Cyrus', 'v2.3.8)', 'with', 'LMTPA;']
Debug: ['Sat,', '05', 'Jan', '2008', '09:14:16', '-0500']
Debug: ['X-Sieve:', 'CMU', 'Sieve', '2.3']
Debug: ['Received:', 'from', 'murder', '([unix', 'socket])']
Debug: ['by', 'mail.umich.edu', '(Cyrus', 'v2.2.12)', 'with', 'LMTPA;']
```
- Each debug line is printing the list of words which we get when we split the line into words. When the program fails, the list of words is empty []. If we open the file in a text editor and look at the file, at that point it looksas follows:
```python
X-DSPAM-Result: Innocent
X-DSPAM-Processed: Sat Jan 5 09:14:16 2008
X-DSPAM-Confidence: 0.8475
X-DSPAM-Probability: 0.0000
```

- The error occurs when our program encounters a blank line!
- Of course there are "zero words" on a blank line.
- When the code looks for the first word (word[0]) to check to see if it matches "From", we get an index out of range error.

This is the perfect place to add some *guardian* code to avoid checking the first word if the first word isn't there.

We will check the number of words we have before we look at the first word:
```python
fhand = open('mbox-short.txt')
count = 0
for line in fhand:
    words = line.split()
    # print('Debug:', words)
    if len(words) == 0 : continue
    if words[0] != 'From' : continue
    print(words[2])
```
- First we comment out the debug print statement instead of removing it in case our modification fails.
- Then we added a guardian statement that checks to see if we have zero words, and if so, we use **continue** to skip to the next line in the file.

We can think of the two **continue** statements as helping us refine the set of lines which are "interesting" to us that we want to process more.
- A line with no words is ignored and the continue statement brings us back to the top.
- A line without "From" as the first word is skipped.

Our guardian statement makes sure that the **words[0]** will never fail, but could not be enough.
When programming, we must always be thinking, "What might go wrong"