---
sticker: lucide//infinity
---
#Loops 

An endless source of amusement for programmers is the observation that the directions on shampoo, “Lather, rinse, repeat,” are an infinite loop because there is no *iteration variable* telling you how many times to execute the loop.

In the case of **countdown**, we can prove the loop terminates because we know the value of **n** is finite, and we can see that the value of **n** gets smaller each time through the loop, and eventually we'll get to 0.

Other times a loop is obviously infinite because it has no iteration variable at all.

Sometimes you don’t know it’s time to end a loop until you get half way through the body. In that case you can write an infinite loop on purpose and then use the **break** statement to jump out of the loop.

This loop is obviously an *infinite loop* because the logical expression on the **while** statement is simply the logical constant **True**:
```
n = 10 
while True:
    print(n, end=' ')
    n = n - 1
print('Done!')
```
This program will run forever or until your battery runs out
Because the logical expression at the top of the loop is always true by virtue of the fact that the expression is the constant value **True.**

You can still use this pattern to build useful loops as long as you carefully add code to the body of the loop to exit the loop using **break** when you have reached the exit condition.

Suppose you want to take input from the user until they type done.:
```
while True:
    line = input('> ')
    if line == 'done':
        break
    print(line)
print('Done!')
```

The loop condition is True, which is always true, so the loop runs repeatedly until it hits the break statement.
Each time through, it prompts the user with an angle bracket. If the user types done, the break statement exits the loop. Otherwise the program echoes whatever the user types and goes back to the top of the loop. Here’s a sample run:

```
> hello there
hello there
> finished
finished
> done
Done!
```

This way of writing while loops is common because you can check the condition anywhere in the loop (not just at the top) and you can express the stop condition
Affirmatively (“stop when this happens”) rather than negatively (“keep going until that happens.”).