For example, to count the number of items in a list, we would write the following **for** loop:
```
count = 0
for itervar in [3, 41, 12, 9, 74, 15]:
    count = count + 1
print('Count: ', count)

Count: 6
```
- We set the variable **count** to zero before the loop starts, initializing it.
- Then we write a **for** loop to run through the list of numbers.
- Our *iteration* variable is named **itervar** and while we don't use **itervar** in the loop, it does control the loop and case the loop body to be executed once for each of the values in the list.

- In the body of the loop, we add 1 to the current value of count for each of the values in the list.
- While the loop is executing, the value for **count** is the number of values we have seen "so far".
- Once the loop completes, the value of **count** is the total number of items in the list (6).
- We construct the loop so we have what we want when the loop finishes.

Another similar loop that computes the total of a set of numbers (calculate the sum)(accumulator):
```
total = 0
for itervar in [3, 41, 12, 9, 74, 15]:
    total = total + itervar
print('Total: ', total)

Total: 154
```
- In this loop we do use the *iteration variable*.
- Instead of simply adding one to the **count** as in the previous loop, we add the actual number to the running total during each iteration.
- If you think of the variable **total**, it contains the "running total of the values so far"
- So before the loop starts, **total** is zero because we haven't seen any values yet.
- At the end **total** is the overall total of all the values in the list.

As the loop executes, **total** accumulates the sum of the elements; a variable used this way is sometimes called an *accumulator*
