This simple Python program makes a connection to a web server and follows the rules of the HTTP protocol to request a document and display what the server sends back:
```python
import socket

mysock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
mysock.connect(('data.pr4e.org', 80))
cmd = 'GET http://data.pr4e.org/romeo.txt HTTP/1.0\r\n\r\n'.encode()
mysock.send(cmd)

while True:
    data = mysock.recv(512)
    if len(data) < 1:
        break
    print(data.decode(), end='')

mysock.close()
```
- First the program makes a connection to port 80 on the server www.py4e.com
- Since our program is playing the role of the "web browser", the HTTP protocol says we must send the GET command followed by a blank line.
	- `\r\n` signifies an EOL (end of line)
	- So `\r\n\r\n` signifies nothing between two EOL sequences.
	- That is equivalent of a blank line.

- Once we send that blank line, we write a loop that receives data in 512-character chunks from the socket
	- And prints the data out until there is no more data to read (ie, the recv () returns an empty string)
`Out:`
```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 07 May 2024 15:02:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2.4.52 (Ubuntu)
Last-Modified: Sat, 13 May 2017 11:22:22 GMT
ETag: "a7-54f6609245537"
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Length: 167
Cache-Control: max-age=0, no-cache, no-store, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Expires: Wed, 11 Jan 1984 05:00:00 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/plain

But soft what light through yonder window breaks
It is the east and Juliet is the sun
Arise fair sun and kill the envious moon
Who is already sick and pale with grief
```

- The output starts with headers which the web server sends to describe the document.
- For example, the `Content-Type` header indicates that the doc is a plain text doc (text/plain).

- After the server sends us the headers, it adds a blank line to indicate the end of the headers, and then sends the actual data of the file `romeo.txt`.

- This example shows how to make a low-level network connection with sockets.
	- Sockets can be used to communicate with a web server or mail server or many other kinds of servers.
	- All that's needed is to find the document which describes the protocol and write the code to send & receive the data according to the protocol.

Since the protocol that we use most commonly is the HTTP web protocol, Python has a special library specifically designed to support the HTTP protocol for the retrieval of docs and data over the web.
- One of the requirements for using the HTTP protocol is the need to send and receive data as *bytes objects*, instead of strings.
- The `encode()`, and `decode()` methods convert strings into bytes objects and back again.

The next example uses b'' notation to specify that a variable should be stored as a bytes object. Encode () and b'' are equivalent.
```python
>>> b'Hello world'
b'Hello world'
>>> 'Hello world'.encode()
b'Hello world'
```
