#Regex 

- If we want to extract data from a string in Python we can use the findall () method to extract all of the substrings which match a regular expression. 
- We'll extract anything that looks like an email address from any line regardless of format.
- For example, we want to pull email addresses from the following.
```bash
From stephen.marquard@uct.ac.za Sat Jan 5 09:14:16 2008
Return-Path: <postmaster@collab.sakaiproject.org>
for <source@collab.sakaiproject.org>;
Received: (from apache@localhost)
Author: stephen.marquard@uct.ac.za
```
- We don't want to write code for each of the types of lines, splitting and slicing differently for each line.

The following program uses `findall()` to find the lines with email addresses in them and extract one or more addresses from each of those lines:
```python
import re
s = 'A message from csev@umich.edu to cwen@iupui.edu about meeting @2PM'
lst = re.findall('\S+@\S+', s)
print(lst)
```
- The `findall()` method searches the string in the second argument and returns a list of all of the strings that look like email addresses.
- `\S` is a two-character sequence that matches a non-whitespace character. 
`Out:`
```python
<>:3: SyntaxWarning: invalid escape sequence '\S'  
<ipython-input-4-3894137c18b3>:3: SyntaxWarning: invalid escape sequence '\S'  
 lst = re.findall('\S+@\S+', s)  
['csev@umich.edu', 'cwen@iupui.edu']
```
- It throws an error but returns the correct result.
- Translating the regex, we are looking for substrings that have at least one non-whitespace character.
- Followed by an at-sign
- Followed by at least one more non-whitespace character.
- The `\S+` matches as many non-whitespace characters as possible.
- The regex would match twice ( csev@umich.edu and cwen@iupui.edu )
- It wouldn't match the string "@2 PM" because there are no non-blank characters *before* the at-sign.

To use regex to read all the lines in a file and print out anything that looks like an email:
```python
import re
hand = open('mbox-short.txt')
for line in hand:
    line = line.rstrip()
    x = re.findall('\S+@\S+', line)
    if len(x) > 0:
        print(x)
```
- We read each line and then extract all the substrings that match our regular expression.
- Since `findall()` returns a list, we simply check if the number of elements in our returned list is more than zero to print only lines where we found at least one substring that looks like an email address.
- `Out:`
```bash
['wagnermr@iupui.edu']
['cwen@iupui.edu']
['<postmaster@collab.sakaiproject.org>']
['<200801032122.m03LMFo4005148@nakamura.uits.iupui.edu>']
['<source@collab.sakaiproject.org>;']
['<source@collab.sakaiproject.org>;']
['<source@collab.sakaiproject.org>;']
['apache@localhost)']
['source@collab.sakaiproject.org;']
```
- Some of the email addresses have incorrect characters like "<" or ";" at the beginning or end.
- Let's declare that we only want the portion of the string that starts and ends with a letter or number.
	- To do this we use square brackets to indicate a set of multiple acceptable characters we are willing to consider matching.
	- In a sense, the `\S` is asking to match the set of "non-whitespace characters."

Here is our new regular expression:
`[a-zA-Z0-9]\S*@\S*[a-zA-Z]`
