#Regex 

- If we want to find numbers on lines that start with the string "X-"such as:
```
X-DSPAM-Confidence: 0.8475
X-DSPAM-Probability: 0.0000
```

- We don't just want any floating-point numbers from any lines.
- We only want to extract numbers from lines that have the above syntax.

We can construct the following regex to select the lines:
```python
^X-.*: [0-9]+
```

- Translating this, we want lines that start with `X-`, 
- Followed by zero or more characters (.*),
- Followed by a colon (:) and then a space
- After the space one or more characters that are either a digit (0-9) or a period `[0-9.]+`
- Note that inside square brackets, the period matches an actual period (ie. Its not a wildcard when between brackets).

This is a very tight expression that will pretty much match only lines we are interested in as follows:
```python
# Search for lines that start with 'X' followed by any non  
# whitespace characters and ':'  
# followed by a space and any number.  
# The number can include a decimal.  
import re  
hand = open('mbox-short.txt')  
for line in hand:
    line = line.rstrip()
    if re.search('^X\S*: [0-9.]+', line):
        print(line)
```
- When we run the program, we see the data nicely ﬁltered to show only the lines we are looking for.
```
X-DSPAM-Confidence: 0.8475  
X-DSPAM-Probability: 0.0000  
X-DSPAM-Confidence: 0.6178  
X-DSPAM-Probability: 0.0000
```
- But now we have to solve the problem of extracting the numbers.
- While using **split** would be easy enough, we can use another regex feature to both search and parse the line at the same time.

- Parentheses are another special character in regex. When added to a regex, they are ignored when matching the string.
- But when you use **findall()** , parentheses indicate that while you want the whole expression to match, you are only interested in extracting a portion of the substring that matches the regex.

So we make the following change to our program:
```python
# Search for lines that start with 'X' followed by any  
# non whitespace characters and ':' followed by a space  
# and any number. The number can include a decimal.  
# Then print the number if it is greater than zero.  
import re  
hand = open('mbox-short.txt')  
for line in hand:  
    line = line.rstrip()  
    x = re.findall('^X\S*: ([0-9.]+)', line)  
    if len(x) > 0:  
        print(x)
```
- Instead of calling **search()**, we add parentheses around the part of the regex that represents the floating-point number to indicate we only want **findall()** to give us back the floating-point number portion of the matching string.
The output is:
```
'0.8475']  
['0.0000']  
['0.6178']  
['0.0000']  
['0.6961']  
['0.0000']  
..
```
- The numbers are still in a list and need to be converted from strings to floats,
- But we have used the power of regex to both search and extract info we found interesting.

As another example of this technique, if you look at the file there are a number of lines of the form:
```
Details: http://source.sakaiproject.org/viewsvn/?view=rev&rev=39772
```
- If we wanted to extract all of the revision numbers using the same technique:
```python
# Search for lines that start with 'Details: rev='  
# followed by numbers and '.'  
# Then print the number if it is greater than zero  
import re  
hand = open('mbox-short.txt')  
for line in hand:  
    line = line.rstrip()  
    x = re.findall('^Details:.*rev=([0-9.]+)', line)  
    if len(x) > 0:  
        print(x)
```

- Translating our regular expression, we are looking for lines that start with  `Details:`, 
- followed by any number of characters (.*), 
- followed by `rev=`, and then by one or more digits.
- We want to ﬁnd lines that match the entire expression but  
we only want to extract the integer number at the end of the line, so we surround  `[0-9]+` with parentheses.

Heres the output:
```
['39772']  
['39771']  
['39770']  
['39769']  
```

- Remember that the `[0-9]+` is "greedy" and  it tries to make as large a string of digits as possible before extracting them.
- This "greedy" behavior is why we get all five digits each..
- The regex lib expands in both directions until it encounters a non-digit, or the beginning or end of a line.

Now we can use regex to redo an exercise from earlier where we were interested in lines in the form of:
`From stephen.marquard@uct.ac.za Sat Jan 5 09:14:16 2008`
- And wanted to extract the hour of the day for each line.
	- Previously we did this with two calls to `split`.
	- First the line was split into words, then we pulled out the fifth word,
	- Split it again on the colon character to pull out the two characters we needed.

While this worked, it actually results in pretty brittle code that is assuming the
Lines are nicely formatted. If you were to add enough error checking (or a big
Try/except block) to insure that your program never failed when presented with incorrectly formatted lines, the code would balloon to 10-15 lines of code that was pretty hard to read.

We can do this in a far simpler way with the following regex:
`^From .* [0-9][0-9] 

- To translate, we are looking for lines that start with `From` (note the space),
- Followed by any number of characters `(.*)`,
- Followed by two digits `[0-9][0-9]`, followed by a colon.

In order to pull out only the hour using `findall()`, we add parentheses around the two digits as follows:
`^From .* ([0-9][0-9]):`

This results in the following program:
```python
# Search for lines that start with From and a character
# followed by a two digit number between 00 and 99 followed by ':'
# Then print the number if it is greater than zero
import re
hand = open('mbox-short.txt')
for line in hand:
line = line.rstrip()
x = re.findall('^From .* ([0-9][0-9]):', line)
if len(x) > 0: print(x)
```
`Out:`
```
['09']
['18']
['16']
['15']
...
```