
- In order to write useful programs, we almost always need the ability to check conditions and change the behavior of the program accordingly.
- *Conditional statements* give us this ability
The simplest form is the if statement:
```python
if x > 0:
    print('x is positive')
```
- The boolean expression after the if statement is called the *condition*.
- We end the if statement with a colon character (:) and the line (s) after the if statement are indented.
- If the logical condition is true, the indented statement gets executed.
- If the logical condition is false, the indented statement is skipped.

- If statements have the same structure as [[function definitions]] or [[for loops]].
- The statement consists of a header line that ends with a colon followed by an indented block. These are called *compound statements* because they stretch across more than one line.
- There is no limit on the number of statements that can appear in the body, but there must be at least one.
- Occasionally, it is useful to have a body with no statements (as a placeholder) In that case you can use a **pass** statement, which does nothing.
```python
if x < 0:
    pass      # need to handle negative values!
```

If you enter an if statement in the Python interpreter, the prompt will change to three dots to indicate you are in the middle of a block of statements, like this:
```python
>>> x = 3
>>> if x < 10:
... print('Small')
...
Small
>>>
```

When using the Python interpreter, you must leave a blank line at the end of a block, or else you'll get an error:
```python
>>> x = 3  
>>> if x < 10:  
... print('Small')  
... print('Done')  
File "<stdin>", line 3  
print('Done')  
    ^  
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
```
- A blank line isn't necessary when writing & executing a script, but it may improve readability of your code.