```python
>>> prompt = "What is the air velocity of an unladen swallow?\n"  
>>> speed = input(prompt)  
What is the air velocity of an unladen swallow?  
What do you mean, an African or a European swallow?  
>>> int(speed)  
ValueError: invalid literal for int() with base 10:  
>>>
```
- When we are executing these statements in the Python interpreter, we get a new prompt from the interpreter, think "oops", and move on to our next statement
- However if this was a script and this error occurs, your script immediately stops in its tracks with a traceback. It does not execute the following statement
Here is a sample program to convert Fahrenheit temp to Celsius temp:
```python
inp = input('Enter a Fahrenheit Temperature: ')
fahr = float(inp)
cel = (fahr - 32.0) * 5.0 / 9.0
print(cel)
```
-  If the user enters anything other than a number you will get a Traceback (most recent call last): ValueError: could not convert string to float: 'fred'
There is a conditional execution structure built into Python to handle these types of expected and unexpected errors called
- "try and except"
-  The idea is that you know some sequence of instructions may have a problem and you want to add some statements to be executed if an error occurs.
- These extra statements ( the except block ) are ignored if there is no error.
- You can think of the try and except feature in Python as an "insurance policy" on a sequence of statements
We can rewrite our temp converter as follows:
```python
inp = input('Enter Fahrenheit Temperature:')  
try:  
    fahr = float(inp)  
    cel = (fahr - 32.0) * 5.0 / 9.0  
    print(cel)  
except:  
    print('Please enter a number')
 
 # fahren2.py
```

- Python starts by executing the sequence of statements in the try block.
- If all goes well, it skips the except block and proceeds.
- If an exception occurs in the try block, Python jumps out of the try block and executes the sequence of statements in the except block
```python
python fahren2.py  
Enter Fahrenheit Temperature:72  
22.22222222222222  

python fahren2.py  
Enter Fahrenheit Temperature:fred  
Please enter a number
```

- Handling an exception with a try statement is called *catching* an exception.
- In this example the except clause prints an error message.
- In general, catching an exception gives you a chance to fix a problem, or try again, at least the end the program gracefully.