- When Python is processing a logical expression such as x >= 2 and (x/y) > 2, it  evaluates the expression from left to right.
- If x is less than 2 the expression x >= 2 is False so the whole expression is False regardless of whether (x/y) > 2 evaluates to True or False.
- When the evaluation of a logical expression  stops because the overall value is already known, it is called *short-circuiting* the  evaluation.
- While this may seem like a ï¬ne point, the short-circuit behavior leads to a clever  technique called the guardian pattern. Consider the following code sequence in the  Python interpreter:
```python
>>> x = 6
>>> y = 2
>>> x >= 2 and (x/y) > 2
True
>>> x = 1
>>> y = 0
>>> x >= 2 and (x/y) > 2
False
>>> x = 6
>>> y = 0
>>> x >= 2 and (x/y) > 2
Traceback (most recent call last):  
File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>  
ZeroDivisionError: division by zero  
>>>
```
- The third calculation failed because Python was evaluating (x/y) and y was zero which causes a runtime error.
- But the first and second examples didn't fail because the first part of these expressions x >= 2 evaluated to False so the (x/y) was never executed due to the short-circuit rule and there was no error.
- We can construct the logical expression to strategically place a guard evaluation  just before the evaluation that might cause an error as follows:
```python
>>> x = 1  
>>> y = 0  
>>> x >= 2 and y != 0 and (x/y) > 2  
False  
>>> x = 6  
>>> y = 0  
>>> x >= 2 and y != 0 and (x/y) > 2  
False  
>>> x >= 2 and (x/y) > 2 and y != 0  
Traceback (most recent call last):
File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>  
ZeroDivisionError: division by zero  
>>>
```
- In the first logical expression, x >=2 is False so the evaluation stops at the and.
- In the second logical expression, the y != 0 is *after* the (x/y) calculation so the expression fails with an error.
- In the third logical expression, the y != 0 is after the (x/y) calculation so the expression fails with an error.
- In the second expression, we say that y != 0 acts as a guard to insure that we  only execute (x/y) if y is non-zero.