#Tuples #Strings #Lists 

#Tuples #Strings #Lists 

- We have focused on lists of tuples, but almost all of the examples in this chapter also work with lists or lists, tuples of tuples, and tuples of lists.
- To avoid enumerating the possible combinations, it is easier to talk about sequences of sequences.

- In many contexts, the different sequences (strings, lists, and tuples) can be used interchangeably.
- So how and why do you choose one over the others?
    -    Strings are more limited than other sequences because 
         the elements have to be characters. They're also immutable.
         
	 -  If you need the ability to change the characters in a string (as opposed to creating a new string), you might want to use a list of characters instead.
-  Lists are more common than tuples, mostly because they're mutable.

- But there are a few cases where you might prefer tuples:
1. In some contexts, like a `return` statement, it is syntactically simpler to create a tuple than a list. In other contexts, you might prefer a list.
2. If you want to use a sequence as a dictionary key, you have to use an immutable type like a tuple or string.
3. If you are passing a sequence as an argument to a function, using tuples reduces the potential for unexpected behavior due to aliasing.
- Because tuples are immutable, they don't provide methods like `sort` and `reverse`, which modify existing lists.
- However Python provides the built-in functions `sorted` and `reversed`, which take any sequence as a parameter and return a new sequence with the same elements in a different order.