#OOP 

Another powerful feature of object-oriented programming is the ability to create a new class by extending an existing class. When extending a class, we call the original class the parent class and the new class the child class.

- For this example, we move our `PartyAnimal` class into its own file.
- Then, we can "import" the `PartyAnimal` class into a new file to extend it, as follows:
```python
from party import PartyAnimal

class CricketFan(PartyAnimal):
    points = 0
    def six(self):
        self.points = self.points + 6
        self.party()
        print(self.name,"points",self.points)
        
s = PartyAnimal("Sally")
s.party()
j = CricketFan("Jim")
j.party()
j.six()
print(dir(j))
```

When we define the `CricketFan` class, we indicate that we are extending the `PartyAnimal` class.
- This means that all of the variables(x) and methods (party) from the `PartyAnimal` class are *inherited* by the `CricketFan` class.
- For example, within the `six` method in the `CricketFan` class, we call the `party` method from the `PartyAnimal` class.

As the program executes, we create s and j as independent instances of `PartyAnimal` and `CricketFan`. The` j` object has additional capabilities beyondthe `s` object.
```python
Sally constructed
Sally party count 1
Jim constructed
Jim party count 1
Jim party count 2
Jim points 6
['__class__', '__delattr__', '__dict__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__getstate__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__init_subclass__', '__le__', '__lt__', '__module__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', '__weakref__', 'name', 'party', 'points', 'six', 'x']
```
In the dir output for the j object (instance of the CricketFan class), we see that it has the attributes and methods of the parent class, as well as the attributes and methods that were added when the class was extended to create the `CricketFan` class.

## Inheritance
'Subclasses' are more specialized versions of a class, which inherit attributes and behaviors from their parent classes, and can introduce their own.