#OOP 

A program in its most basic form takes some input, does some processing, and produces some output. Our elevator conversion program demonstrates a very short but complete program showing all three of these steps.
```python
usf = input('Enter the US Floor Number: ')
wf = int(usf) - 1
print('Non-US Floor Number is',wf)
```

If we think a bit more about this program, there is the “outside world” and the program.
- The input and output aspects are where the program interacts with the outside world.
- Within the program we have code and data to accomplish the task the program is designed to solve.

One way to think about object-oriented programming is that it separates our program into multiple "zones".
- Each zone contains some code and data (like a program) and has well defined interactions with the outside world and the other zones within the program.

If we look back at the link extraction app where we used bs4, we can see a program that is constructed by connecting different objects together to accomplish a task:
```python
import urllib.request, urllib.parse, urllib.error  
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup  
import ssl  

# Ignore SSL certificate errors  
ctx = ssl.create_default_context()  
ctx.check_hostname = False  
ctx.verify_mode = ssl.CERT_NONE  

url = input('Enter - ')  
html = urllib.request.urlopen(url, context=ctx).read()  
soup = BeautifulSoup(html, 'html.parser')  

# Retrieve all of the anchor tags  
tags = soup('a')  
for tag in tags:  
    print(tag.get('href', None))
```
- We read the URL into a string and then pass that into `urllib` to retrieve the data from the web.
- The `urllib` library uses the `socket` library to make the actual network connection to retrieve the data.
- We take the string that `urllib` returns and hand it to BeautifulSoup for parsing.
- BeautifulSoup makes use of the object `html.parser` and returns an object.
- We call the `tags()` method on the returned object that returns a dictionary of tag objects.
- We loop through the tags and call the `get()` method for each tag to print out the `href` attribute.

The point here is to see how objects work together to provide functionality. 
- We build a network of interacting objects and orchestrate the movement of information between the objects to create a program.