#OOP 

At a basic level, an object is simply some code plus data structures that are smaller than a whole program.
- Defining a function allows us to store a bit of code and give it a name and then later invoke that code using the name of the function.

- An object can contain a number of functions(*methods*) as well as data that is used by those functions.
- We call data items that are part of the object *attributes*

We use the `class` keyword to define the data and code that will make up each of the objects.

The class keyword includes the name of the class and begins an indented block of code where we include the attributes(data) and methods(code).
```python
class PartyAnimal:
    x = 0

    def party(self) :
        self.x = self.x + 1
        print("So far",self.x)

an = PartyAnimal()
an.party()
an.party()
an.party()
PartyAnimal.party(an)
```

- Each method looks like a function, starting with the `def` keyword and consisting of an indented block of code.
- This object has one attribute (x) and one method (party)
- The methods have a special first parameter that we name by convention `self`

Just as the `def` keyword does not cause function code to be executed, the `class`  keyword does not create an object.
- Instead, the `class` keyword deﬁnes a template indicating what data and code will be contained in each object of type `PartyAnimal`

The class is like a cookie cutter and the objects created using the class are the cookies.
- You don't put frosting on the cookie cutter; you put frosting on the cookies, and you can put different frosting on each cookie.

If we continue through this sample program, we see the first executable line of code:
```python
an = PartyAnimal()
```
- This is where we instruct Python to construct an *object* or *instance* of the class `PartyAnimal`.
- Python constructs the object with the right data and methods and returns the object which is then assigned to `an`.

In a way its similar to:
```python
counts = dict()
```
- Here we instruct Python to construct an object using the `dict` template(already present in Python), return the instance of dictionary, and assign it to `counts`

When the `PartyAnimal` class is used to construct an object, the variable an is used to point to that object.
- We use an to access the code and data for that particular instance of the `PartyAnimal` class.

Each Partyanimal object/instance contains within it a variable x and a  
method/function named party. We call the party method in this line:
```python
an.party()
```

When the party method is called, the ﬁrst parameter (which we call by convention  self) points to the particular instance of the PartyAnimal object that party is  called from. Within the party method, we see the line:
```python
PartyAnimal.party(an)
```
In this variation, we access the code from within the class and explicitly pass the  object pointer an as the ﬁrst parameter (i.e., self within the method). You can think of an.party() as shorthand for the above line. When the program executes, it produces the following output:
```python
So far 1 
So far 2
So far 3
So far 4
```
- The object is constructed, and the `party` method is called four times, both incrementing and printing the value for x within the `an` object.